# DSC180B

## Background
Indian Classical music contains two primary divisions - North Indian Classical (_Hindustani_), and South Indian Classical (_Carnatic_). While both styles have their fundamental differences, the underlying structure of styles can be captured in a _raga/raag/ragam_. A raga is defined as “a pattern of notes having characteristic intervals, rhythms, and embellishments, used as a basis for improvisation.” A raga can be compared to a type of scale in Western classical music. Though Western classical music does not have a direct equivalent to this concept, a raga is somewhat comparable to certain scales, such as a natural harmonic minor or a major scale. Every song has a raga that it is set to. For example, the raga _Kirvani_ is equivalent to the natural harmonic scale in Western music.

Our goal with this project is to quantify ragas in a way that we can then build a raga identification tool. This tool would be able to “listen” to an audio clip and be able to identify the raga that the song is set to. It would mimic what seasoned listeners of Indian classical music do already: try to identify a raga while listening to music. By quantifying the features of a ragam, we will attempt to build a raga identification classifier. 

To manage the scope of this project with the time we have, we will build this tool to be functional for 10 prominent Hindustani/Carnatic ragas. These 10 prominent ragas are known as _thaats_. In Hindustani music, these are known as: _Asavari, Bilawal, Bhairav, Bhairavi, Kafi, Kalyan, Khamaj, Marva, Poorvi,_ and _Todi_. The corresponding ragas in Carnatic are known as _Natabhairavi, Dheerashankarabharanam, Mayamalavagowlai, Hanumatodi, Karaharapriya, Kalyani, Harikhamboji, Gamanashama, Kamarvardhani_, and _Shubhapantuvarali_. 